Now that we know what multi-dimensional constraints look like,
it's time to learn a more elegant solution to solving
the system of linear equations produced by a graph of constraints.
The information matrix, and information vector,
are two data structures that we will use to store information from our constraints.
The information matrix is denoted Omega,
and the information vector Xi.
Fundamentally, the information matrix is the inverse of the co-variance matrix.
This means that higher certainty is represented with
larger values in the information matrix,
the opposite of the covariance matrix,
where complete certainty was represented by zero.
The Matrix and vector hold over all of
the poses and all of the features in the environment.
Every off-diagonal cell in the matrix is a link between two poses,
a pose and a feature or two features.
When no information is available about a link,
the cell has a value of zero.
The information matrix and information vector exploit
the additive property of the negative log likelihoods of constraints.
For a system with linear measurement and motion models,
the constraints can be populated into
the information matrix and information vector in an additive manner.
On the left, you can see the start of a graph that
a robot constructed as it moved around some environment.
The graph contains five constraints.
One initial constraint, two motion constraints,
and two measurement constraints.
This graph will be used to demonstrate at a high level
how the information matrix and vector can be populated.
To begin with, they are populated successively with each constraint.
The initial constraint will tie the pose 'x0' to a value usually zero.
This constraint will populate one cell in the information matrix,
and one in the information vector.
Next, let's look at the motion constraint between 'x0' and 'x1'.
A motion constraint will tie together
two robot poses populating four cells in the matrix,
and two in the vector.
These are the cells that relate 'x0' an 'x1' to each other.
Similarly, a measurement constraint will update
four cells in the matrix and two in the vector.
These are the cells that relate the feature to the pose from which it was measured.
In this case 'm1' to 'x1'.
Recall that any new formation supplied to the matrix and vector is additive.
This process continues.
The next constraint ties together poses 'x1' and 'x2',
and the following constraint ties feature 'm1' to the pose 'x2.'
Once every constraint has been added to the information matrix and information vector,
it is considered to be populated.
It is common for the number of poses and features
to be in the thousands or even tens of thousands.
The information matrix is considered sparse because most off-diagonal elements are zero,
since there is no relative information to tie them together.
This sparsity is very valuable when it comes to
solving the system of equations that is embedded in the information matrix and vector.
And this is what we will explore next.